Much of the material used in this study was gathered while the writer was engaged by the National Park Service in Zion Canyon, 
and he himself participated in many of the events described in the latter pages. The foundation for understanding the historical 
background, however, was laid during his early life in St. George and the surrounding region. Expressions and opinions have been 
interpreted largely through that experience.

The writer was acquainted with many of the early Dixie settlers, and notes of interviews with some of these have furnished details 
otherwise unobtainable. Personal letters also have filled in many gaps.

Additional source material has been obtained from the Office of the Adjutant General of Utah, the Salt Lake Public Library, the 
libraries of the University of Utah and Dixie Junior College, newspaper files, published books, unpublished manuscripts, original 

The writer is grateful to many for their encouragement, advice, information, pictures, reading and criticism of the manuscript. 
He is particularly indebted to Dr. H. E. Gregory, Horace M. Albright, Randall L. Jones, D. D. Rust, H. L. Reid, J. W. Thornton, 
Zaidee Walker Miles, J. Cecil Alter and Miss Marguerite L. Sinclair, Secretary of the Utah State Historical Society. Further 
assistance came from William W. Seegmiller, Frederick S. Dellenbaugh, Frederick Vining Fisher, Dr. J. K. W. Bracken, Lawrence S. 
Mariger, Charles B. Petty, William R. Palmer and Mrs. Margery Browne Cottam (granddaughter of Levi Stewart), as well as the 
following persons who furnished source material through interviews and written notes:
Hyrum Leany, Frank Foster, Joseph S. Snow, Leo A. Snow, St. George; Chauncey G. Parry, Gronway Parry, Randall L. Jones, Richard A. 
Thorley, Frank Petty, Cedar City; David Hirschi, John Petty, Mary Jane Stout, Hurricane; James Jepson, Thomas Maloney, Virgin; 
James H. Jennings, Mr. and Mrs. John Dennett, Arley Dalton, Rockville; Oliver D. Gifford, Edwin M. Greene, John Winder, Walter 
Ruesch, Harold Russell, Springdale; Marion Heap, Zion; Ezra Stevens, Mt. Carmel; William Wallace Adair, Orderville; Nate Adams, 
Walter Hamblin, Lavina Johnson Farnsworth, Thomas Greenhalgh, Brigham A. Riggs, Kanab; Mr. and Mrs. Peter Munk, Manti; the late 
Anthony W. Ivins, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., D. S. Spencer, Howard C. Means, Lewis T. Cannon, Scott P. Stewart, H. S. Kerry, Salt Lake 
City; Old George (Kaibabit Indian), Moccasin, Arizona; Tony Tillohash, Frank Mustache, Tommy Mayo (Shivwits Indians), Santa Clara.
